NMS-11810: Database Reports documentation (#4663)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/database-reports/templates/event.adoc

[[event-report]]
= Event Analysis Report

> === Report Contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Report Contents
```

This report provides an analysis of all events over the past 30 days.  This report contains the following 6 sections:

* All events by source
* Top 25 events by unique event identifier ("UEI") and event source
* Top 25 event hours
* Top 25 events by node
* Top 25 events by node and UEI
* Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps

> //QUESTION: Need explanation of last section

Author: Does the wording in the last bullet need to change?  If so, how?

> The first section includes a pie showing all events by source, along with a table with the data for the pie chart.  This section allso includes two line charts shoowing the Total average processed events per hour and the events per day.  Finally it contains a table with information on the database providing the above information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first section includes a pie showing all events by source, along with a table with the data for the pie chart.
This section also includes two line charts showing the Total average processed events per hour and the events per day.
Finally it contains a table with information on the database providing the above information.
```

> The next four sections each contain a table and a line chart showing a breakdown of the top 25 events over the last 30 days broken down by event source, hours, node, and node and UEI.  The last section shows the top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps and the number of events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next four sections each contain a table and a line chart showing a breakdown of the top 25 events over the last 30 days broken down by event source, hours, node, and node and UEI.
The last section shows the top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps and the number of events.
```

//QUESTION: Need clarification on all these sections, especially "TOP 25 event hours" and "Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps".  The y axis on all the charts are the same and the values are not all integers, so it doesn't look like these are tallies, which is what is inall of the tables.

This report can be customized with a company logo in the header that is approximately 195px by 50px.

== Parameters

[options="header, autowidth"]
[cols="1,2,3,4"]

|===
| Field
| Type
| Description
| Default

| URL for embedded links
| URL

> | This URL base for OpenNMS embedded links will be used for all links to OpenNMS data in this report.

Reviewer: This is a placeholder that will substitute in either Horizon or Meridian to avoid confusion with OpenNMS the company.
```suggestion
| This URL base for {page-component-title} embedded links will be used for all links to data in this report.
```

[[event-report]]
= Event Analysis Report

> == Report Contents

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Should we remove all the "Report Contents" on the other pages?

> This report provides an analysis of all events over the past 30 days.  This report contains the following 6 sections:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This report provides an analysis of all events over the past 30 days.
This report contains the following six sections:
```

* All events by source
* Top 25 events by unique event identifier ("UEI") and event source
* Top 25 event hours
* Top 25 events by node
* Top 25 events by node and UEI
* Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps
//QUESTION: Need explanation of last section

The first section includes a pie showing all events by source, along with a table with the data for the pie chart.
This section also includes two line charts showing the Total average processed events per hour and the events per day.
Finally it contains a table with information on the database providing the above information.

The next four sections each contain a table and a line chart showing a breakdown of the top 25 events over the last 30 days broken down by event source, hours, node, and node and UEI.
The last section shows the top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps and the number of events.
//QUESTION: Need clarification on all these sections, especially "TOP 25 event hours" and "Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps".  The y axis on all the charts are the same and the values are not all integers, so it doesn't look like these are tallies, which is what is inall of the tables.

> This report can be customized with a company logo in the header that is approximately 195px by 50px.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize this report with a company logo (approximately 195px by 50px) in the header.
```

Reviewer 2: One of the reports earlier lists header and footer. Does it differ among the reports or do they all allow just the header, or both header and footer?

Author: Unfortunately, they are different.  Some just include it in the header, some both and some also have a logo in sections.

[[event-report]]
= Event Analysis Report

This report provides an analysis of all events over the past 30 days.
This report contains the following sections:

* All events by source
* Top 25 events by unique event identifier (UEI) and event source
* Top 25 event hours
* Top 25 events by node
* Top 25 events by node and UEI
* Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps

> // QUESTION: Need explanation of last section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The first section includes a pie showing all events by source, along with a table with the data for the pie chart.
This section also includes two line charts showing the total average processed events per hour and the events per day.
Finally, it contains a table with information on the database providing the above information.

The next four sections each contain a table and a line chart showing a breakdown of the top 25 events over the last 30 days broken down by event source, hours, node, and node and UEI.
The last section shows the top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps and the number of events.

> //QUESTION: Need clarification on all these sections, especially "TOP 25 event hours" and "Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps".  The y-axis on all the charts are the same and the values are not all integers, so it doesn't look like these are tallies, which is what is in all of the tables.

Reviewer: Top 25 Event Hours is the following query:
```sql
SELECT
	eventuei,
	eventdisplay,
	DATE_TRUNC('hour', eventtime) AS hour,
	count(*) AS count
FROM
	events
WHERE
	EXTRACT(epoch FROM eventtime) > EXTRACT(epoch FROM eventtime - INTERVAL '24 hours')
GROUP BY
	eventuei,
	eventdisplay,
	hour
ORDER BY
	count DESC
LIMIT 25;
```
This is looking at the hour of the day where the UEI is seen the most frequently.
The y-axis should be a count on all the charts, unless otherwise labeled.

Enterprise traps is something that only applies when receiving SNMP traps, and shows an overview of the most common traps received.

[[event-report]]
= Event Analysis Report

This report provides an analysis of all events over the past 30 days.
This report contains the following sections:

* All events by source
* Top 25 events by unique event identifier (UEI) and event source
* Top 25 event hours
* Top 25 events by node
* Top 25 events by node and UEI
* Top 25 nodes with generic enterprise default traps

The first section includes a pie showing all events by source, along with a table with the data for the pie chart.
This section also includes two line charts showing the total average processed events per hour and the events per day.
Finally, it contains a table with information about the database providing the above information.

The next four sections each contain a table and a corresponding line chart showing a breakdown of the top 25 events over the last 30 days broken down from different perspectives.

> The "Top 25 events by UEI and event source" shows the top 25 instances of the various combinations of UEI (for example, hodes/NodeDown, threshold/highThresholdExceeded, etc.) and event sources (for example, OpenNMS.Poller.DefaultPollContext, OpenNMS.Threshd.hrStorageUsed, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "Top 25 events by UEI and event source" shows the top 25 instances of the various combinations of UEI (for example, `nodes/NodeDown`, `threshold/highThresholdExceeded`, etc.) and event sources (for example, `OpenNMS.Poller.DefaultPollContext`, `OpenNMS.Threshd.hrStorageUsed`, etc.).
```
